---
  title: Displaying risk assessments
  description: Using the OASys API to display relevant risk information
  date: 2022-11-30
---

### Risk section and overview page
When practitioners are assessing a person before recall they build a picture of the person. A risk assessment software called OASys is used to record lots of information about the circumstances around their offences. Many aspects are looked at when assessing risk factors for example;
* known people who are at risk
* what causes risk to increase
* victims
* children
* risk of self harm

Risk factors are all noted in detail. This information can be really useful to a practitioner to assess whether a live situation is a possible imminent recall.

The information also documents a contingency plan which helps them to think about ways to prevent a recall or look at ways to mitigate it.

## RoSH box
Probation has a longstanding matrix called RoSH score which they use to get an “at a glance” understanding of what risks surround a person. Another team had standardised the way this matrix displays. We inserted this design into the product to evaluate it’s effectiveness.

## Risk history
We also used a timeline component which that team developed. We further extended it by offering a way for significant events to display. If a RoSH score jumps from medium to high the timeline explicitly shows this incident. A note is also available as link and a link to the contact log of that day. Users could hopefully then see what events on that day lead to the increase in risk score. Practitioners today currently don’t have a quick way to see an significant incident. Often those incidents can be very close to recall and so something the practitioner needs to be aware of in detail